# pat2subtask1
Morse code
Morse code is a system of encoding text characters so that they can be transmitted. Consisting of a set of short or long beep sounds, the codification is designed to indicate a message. Transmission can take place either by means of a radio or a light signal. A telegraph was initially a source of transmitting the code. A short beep can be written as – and a long beep as ‗. Five symbols make up the Morse code vocabulary and include the sound dit to represent a dot (.), a dash symbolized by the sound dah, plus a set of gaps which are either short, medium, or long depending on whether they are between letters, words, or sentences. Although Morse code can be used in many international languages, it was invented in English.

Brief History
Morse code was invented by Samuel F.B. Morse in 1835. Morse, a painter by profession, was born in 1791 and lived until 1872. He devised the Morse code system with Alfred Vail (1807–59) and Joseph Henry (1797–1878). Vail was a machinist and inventor and Henry, a physicist. Together they developed a system whereby an electromagnetic telegraph could transmit a set of coded signals. The first electromagnetic telegraph created was introduced in 1836. The codification utilized was a system of dots and dashes Morse had invented. This was incorporated into a method of short and long pulses to be sent via the telegraph. Each dot, dash, or pulse corresponded to a letter of the English alphabet. In 1844, the first Morse code message was sent. The point of transmission was Washington and the destination, Baltimore. The message read, "What hath God wrought?" The message was received almost instantly.

Initially, Morse code was used primarily for maritime or military communication. Later, Morse code became a pastime of amateur radio enthusiasts using it to communicate over long distance or short wave radio transmissions. Use is also activated at time of power failures. Acquiring a ham license for radio transmitters meant learning Morse code until 2007 when this was declared unnecessary. Many courses are still available for interested parties wishing to learn the skill.

The twenty-first century saw an addition to Morse code in the form of the symbol @ in alignment with technological advancements of the century. Although email usage had been prevalent since the twentieth century, the decision to incorporate @ came about later. Previously, the word at needed to be spelled out with the equivalent dot corresponding to A and the dash connected to T. However, the sound that emanated from this combination is also associated with the letter W. The change took place on 3 May 2004 and marked the first time since World War II that Morse code welcomed a new symbol.

Overview
Morse code is sent as a series of intermittent signals. Each symbol and gap in between represent a series of letters, numbers, and punctuation marks that spell out a word or sentence. The term Morse code may be used to refer to the code of symbols devised for the English alphabet. Morse code may imply American Morse Code or International Morse Code. The first corresponds to the initial messaging system as devised by Morse. International Morse Code is more common today. The ways in which the code can be transmitted include "an audio tone, a steady radio signal switched on and off (only the carrier wave, or CW, also continuous wave), an electrical pulse down a telegraph wire, or as a mechanical or visual signal (e.g., a flashing light)" (EDinformatics.com). The early Morse code transmission may be considered an example of what became digital communication.

Although Morse code was created in English, it is adaptable and can be used for many other international languages. In instances where a Latin alphabet is not used, various other versions of Morse code are put into practice. These include variations applicable to Arabic, Cyrillic, Greek, Hebrew, and Japanese languages. The Japanese Morse code version is called Wabun Code in order to apply specific codes to the kana syllabic method. The Chinese and Korean systems of Morse code also differ. For Chinese characters a four-digit code system is used and then transmitted according to standard Morse code communication. SKATS, an abbreviation of Standard Korean Alphabet Transliteration System, is the mode for the Korean language.

International Morse Code. International Morse Code may be learned as dots and dashes, in addition to learning the alphabet letter and Morse sound. For instance, A becomes di-dah, B dah-di-di-dit, with a full range of combinations to the letter Z as dah-dah-di-dit. Digits are also translated by sound formulations, such as dah-dah-dah-dah-dah for 0 to dah-dah-dah-dah-dit for nine. Punctuation marks and Morse equivalents are available for apostrophe, brackets, comma, colon, equal, hyphen, period (full-stop), question mark, quotation marks, and slash. Further codifications comprise stylistic spacings with new line or paragraph or end-of-message signals. The beginning and ending of transmissions also carry a certain code, as does the affirmation that a message has been understood. SOS, a distress message, corresponds to di-di-di-dah-dah-dah-di-di-dit. There are numerous phrases and abbreviations that are employed during Morse code transmission, including Over, Roger, Best Regards, and other colloquial expressions. Additionally, there are Q code symbolic letters meaning something specific. QSL indicates acknowledging receipt, while QSL with a question mark (QSL?) indicates this as questioning acknowledgment. Likewise, with QRX, QRV, QRL, and QTH, which can mean wait, I am ready to copy, the frequency is in use, or my location is, and with a question mark turns into inquiry. Letters that have accents or dots according to foreign languages are also translated into systems of code format (morsecode.scphillips.com). International Morse Code differs from the American counterpart as it eliminates pausing, instead using only the dits and dahs system.
